So how would the Node equivalent
look like for this server?
For that, I quit the server.
And now in app.js let's see the equivalent.
Now to get the proper IDE completion and support
I will go back to the extensions
and temporarily disable my Deno extension again.
You might not need this, at the moment it's clashing
with Node development, so I will do this.
And, with that done, here in app.js,
I first of all will import the http core module.
So we're going to write some Node code.
Now, this is what we do.
Now, with that imported, we create a Node server
by calling
http.createServer
and createServer now does not want an object with a port,
it just wants a function that gets the incoming request
and that gets a response object
which will be executed for every incoming request.
So this is how we deal with incoming requests in Node world.
We don't have a async iterator there,
instead there we really just have this callback function.
And there we also don't send back a response
by calling some response method on the request,
but instead we have this extra response argument
which we get and there we can call the end method
to complete the response and send it back.
And to end we could add our response body,
for example, the Hello World (from Node!) text.
Now this alone will not spin up the server though,
it will just create it.
Now to spin it up we need to call listen
and to listen we then pass the port number.
And that's our Node server.
Now we execute app.js with Node
and we don't need to specify any permissions
because, as I mentioned, Node doesn't have
this permissions system.
If we do this however, the server starts running
and this process is therefore not ending
because it keeps on listening for incoming requests.
And if I now wizard localhost 3000
I see Hello World (from Node!).
So that is how we would spin up a server with Node.
And it's not too far off from Deno,
but of course we see core differences
like the import syntax,
the fact that here we a locally available module,
whereas here we reach out to a server.
And we then of course create a server and listen like this,
instead of creating it like this and listening automatically
and then having this way of processing requests.
It's up to you which approach you prefer,
they're both relatively short,
not too much code I would say,
but this is how you would do it in Node and Deno.